hey how's it going Dave 2d here so Asus
makes the Zenbook line they have big
ones they have small ones and this is
their latest thin and light ultra book
it's the s 13 and what makes this device
special is the very thin bezels so this
device has what I think are the thinnest
bezels on an ultrabook like this and
they've done it to fit a relatively
large screen on a smaller chassis so
this is a thirteen point nine inch
screen on a chassis that would
traditionally only hold a 13-inch screen
so it's a bigger screen for a smaller
footprint and in doing so they've been
forced to make this notch or hump thing
at the top of the screen now for most
people they're gonna look at this notch
or hump and it looks weird right this is
not how normal laptops are built so when
I first saw this thing in pictures at
CES I was like that's weird right I
don't if I love this design but having
used this for a little while I don't
find it that offensive like when you
have it closed it serves as a little
grip or some kind of tab to lift the
screen and it works but it's weird
because there's a protrusion on the
device and it's just most devices like
most laptops don't have protrusions like
this but I appreciate what they're
trying to do now the reason why they
have this protrusion is because they had
to house the camera at the top of the
screen and they've done it in a way that
looks reasonably nice but it is strange
to have a protrusion at the top of a
laptop screen now the display itself is
quite nice it's a 1080p screen color
accurate very bright 400 nits it's
brighter than a lot of other 1080p
screens I've used in the Ultrabook
market and because of the hinge it
almost hides the bottom bezel completely
and gives you a very clean looking
visual the port selection is okay
there's two you specie one used to be a
the you species do not support
Thunderbolt 3 which is a bit of a shame
there's microSD and a headphone jack
there's one thing that I like about the
Zenbook which other older Zen books
don't have it's the fact that they
include a USB C charger all the olders
and books have used their barrel plugs
which I honestly hate for 2018 and 2019
they finally switched over to a regular
use PC like Universal charging and
that's pretty nice ok keyboard trackpad
it lifts the back of the device they
call it ergo left like when you lift it
up it's got this tilt some people hate
this some people really like it
personally I find it enjoyable the tilt
it's very slight I know a lot of people
like hey you know when you have tilted
keyboards it's super and
it gives you carpal tunnel it's such a
slight tilt it's probably like two three
degrees it's very slight and I think for
most people they will enjoy it but it's
something that you should probably try
in a store if you can before you kind of
commit to this keyboard but the actual
typing experience is good good layout
nice and spacious the keystrokes are a
little bit softer like the mechanism
that they're using to bounce the key
back up could be a little bit stiffer
but I think most people get used to this
really easily
now the trackpad has windows precision
drivers it's a nice trackpad but they
have this option where you can get a
illuminated keypad on the trackpad now
it looks really cool in pictures and
videos but having used it on other
devices that they make it's not as
useful as you might think so the reason
why you would want a number pad in the
first place is for speed of numerical
inputs right you'd think that by
pressing the numbers it'd be easier than
using the numbers at the top of the
keyboard and in theory it would be the
problem is that there's no tactile
feedback when you press the numbers on
the trackpad and there's a bit of input
lag when you press it so it's cool in
theory but in its current state at least
the last version that I tried it's
pretty mediocre it's really cool looking
but like I said in the previous video
don't purchase this device just for that
numerical light-up pad okay performance
the CPU on this thing is the 8th gen
whiskey lick it turbos a little bit
faster than the previous generation but
it's still an 8th gen CPU and it's still
a 4 core CPU the GPU in here is an MX
150 now this particular unit I believe
is running a 25 watt version it clocks
pretty fast and the 3dmark scores are in
line with a 25 watt version but this is
an engineering sample so I'm not sure
how the retail units will play out but
despite the MX 150 with a pretty
powerful CPU there is a relatively large
problem on this device and it's the
thermals so this device has two fans and
when it's idle it's pretty much silent
which is great but even when it's
running benchmarks it's still very quiet
and it shouldn't be because the
processor in here both the CPU and the
GPU are capable of pushing out a lot of
performance and a lot of heat the thing
is I ran some fan control on this so I
ran some manual fan control software and
the fans can get quite loud and when
they do thermals are great the problem
is in its current state there's no way
to control those fans through
a ceases software suite they actually
don't have any kind of manual fan
control and I get it it's a Zen book
it's not like a gaming device but it's
capable of pushing a decent frame rates
in games but because of the thermal
situation this is put in it can't now
I'm not sure if Asus is doing this
because they don't want it to be too
loud for the user or they'd want it too
complicated to have the users switch
between fan profiles and stuff
but there are a lot of users I don't
know if some of you guys are like you
would use something like this you want
the device that has an MX 150 and a
quad-core CPU that can play games little
bit on the side but this is so gimped
because of the fans inside there you're
also seeing a replaceable nvme but the
RAM and the Wi-Fi card are built on
board it's a 50 watt hour battery got a
little bit less than seven hours of
battery life with the screen at 215 it
and this is an engineering sample I feel
like that the retail version will
probably tweak that a little bit better
but in its current state a little bit
less than seven hours speakers are good
they're not amazingly positioned there
on the bottom and because of the Ergo
lift there's this like chamber of
emptiness underneath that this sound
kind of reverb a little bit it's
reasonably loud but it's not super clean
audio now a device like this if you're
interested in buying one the pricing I'm
not sure yet I'm imagining it's gonna be
like around a thousand bucks for bass
like that's always the rare of those n
bucks the 13 in 14 inches and books kind
of start if you're interested in buying
this you're probably looking at stuff
like the XPS 13 or the Razer Blade
stealth and those are all great devices
the advantage here is without a doubt
the aesthetic like that super thin bezel
is something that's quite unique to this
but it's hard to recommend one of these
over another they're all really good
this hump I think most people just kind
of get used to it I don't think that
this is like it may look strange at
first but once you own it I think most
people like it looks fine the device on
the whole great hardware I just wish
there was some kind of software for fan
control so that for users who really
want that extra kick out of their system
that they could get it but in its
current form you can't okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs if you
liked it
subs if you love to see you guys next
time
you